We've proposed the flexible group spatial keyword query and algorithms to process three variants of the query in the spatial textual domain:

1. The group nearest neighbor with keywords query, which finds the data object that optimizes the aggregate cost function for the whole group `Q` of size `n` query objects
2. The subgroup nearest neighbor with keywords query, which finds the optimal subgroup of query objects and the data object that optimizes the aggregate cost function for a given subgroup size `m (  m≤n )`, and 
3. The multiple subgroup nearest neighbor with keywords query, which finds optimal subgroups and corresponding data objects for each of the subgroup sizes in the range `[m, n]`. 

We've designed query processing algorithms based on branch-and-bound and best-first paradigms and conducted extensive experiments with two real datasets to show the efficiency of the proposed algorithms.

The publication is available at [Springer](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-68155-9_1) and at [arxiv.org](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.07405).


## Input File Formats

+ **Location File**: Each line contains a location of a data object. Example:

	```
	0,-81.804885,24.550558
	1,-73.985495,40.740067
	2,-71.047843,42.33719
	3,-0.384016,39.474441
	4,-109.4995,38.737861
	...
	```

	The first column contains the object ID and the second and third column contains the latitude and longitude of the data object. In our dataset, `loc.txt` is the location file.

+ **Keyword file**: Each line contains the keywords of a data object. Example:

	```
	0,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9
	1,10,11,12
	2,13,14,15
	3,16,17,18,19,20
	4,21,22
	```
	
	The first column contains the object ID and the subsequent columns contains the keywords. In our dataset, `words.txt` is the keyword file.

## Running the Program

+ Run `WeightCompute` to generate a weighted keyword file.

	```Weightcompute words.txt wwrods.txt```

	This will create a file named `wwrods.txt` where each of the keyword would have a weight (generated by Language Model). It will also print the maximum weight and the number of unique keywords in the keyword file (which you might need later to change the parameter file).

+ The source file `utils.Parameters` continas some variables specific to the dataset. Edit these parameters if necessary.
+ Run `evaluate.bash` file with the following parameters:
	- Input directory (which should contain the `loc.txt` and `wwords.txt` file) 
	- Output directory
	- Aggregate Function Name (`MAX` for max and `SUM` and sum)
	 
	Example: ` ./evaluate.bash ../annk-data/yelp/ ~/Dropbox/Thesis/Results/yelp/max MAX`. This will create a set of output files (with `.dat` extension) in the output directory. Each file has three columns. The first one is the query parameter, second one is the time or I/O spent on the proposed algorithm and the third one is the time or I/O spent on the baseline algorithm.

	Inside the `evaluate.bash` file, we generate query files for GNNK (`gnnk.txt`) and SGNNK (`sgnnk.txt`) using `test.QueryGenerator` and then run `test.Main` to generate CPU time and I/O spent in the experiment. You might need to edit `evaluate.bash`.
+ Run `generate-graph.bash`. The input and output directories are hardcoded inside the file (Sorry!). This runs the `plot.gpl` over the `.dat` files and generates `.tex` and `.eps` files as the output. You can use these files in latex for showing graphs.


